---
title: Server specifications
weight: 2
---

# Server specifications

The minimum server specifications are:

- 2 GB RAM
- 1 CPU @ 2GHz
- 2 GB storage

Approximately 750 MB of storage is required for the engine itself, with the remaining space allocated for data generated by the engine. Storage capacity should be calculated based on the scope and expected lifetime of the collection.

## Storage

Recommended storage: 10 GB, with resizable partitioning to enable growth over time.

Storage usage typically grows at a rate of 0.5 MB per tracked terms per month on average for latin scripts. This growth rate varies depending on the type of service being tracked:

- Services with large legal teams and heavy website layouts: ~1 MB per terms per month
- Smaller services: ~0.1-0.3 MB per terms per month

### Examples

- Tracking 5 very large social media platforms on their 5 most common terms types (such as Terms of Service, Privacy Policy, Trackers Policy, Developer Agreement, Community Guidelines) would require approximately 300 MB of additional storage per year.
- Tracking a sample of 200 platforms on an average of 4 common terms types would require approximately 5 GB of additional storage per year.

## Operating system

The Open Terms Archive engine is [continuously tested](https://github.com/OpenTermsArchive/engine/blob/main/.github/workflows/test.yml#L12-L15) and guaranteed to work on the following operating systems:

- Ubuntu 22.04
- Debian 11
- macOS 14
- macOS 15
- Windows Server 2022

Please [report](https://github.com/OpenTermsArchive/engine/issues/new) any incompatibility with more recent versions of these operating systems.

## Location

Servers must be physically located in geographic regions that belong to the jurisdiction the collection targets to ensure to [obtain documents like a user would]({{< relref "concepts/design-principles#3-obtain-documents-like-a-user-would" >}}). This is crucial because some services deliver different versions of documents based on the inferred location of the request, even when the documents are supposed to be identical and located at the same URL.
